Welcome back to Movie Recaps. Today
I will show you an action, adventure,
fantasy film from 2017, titled Kong: Skull
Island. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
It's 1944, War World II. Somewhere on the
South Pacific, two planes fall on an island,
followed closely by their parachuting pilots:
American soldier Hank Marlow and Japanese
soldier Gunpei Ikari. As soon as they see
each other, the shooting and running begin,
and the chase takes them from the beach into the
jungle. Hank finds himself obliged to stop when he
comes across the edge of a cliff, an opportunity
Gunpei uses to attack him with his sword. Hank
stops the sword with his bare hands and pushes
Gunpei away, disarming him. But Gunpei takes a
knife and jumps on Hank, his knife merely inches
away from his throat when suddenly, a giant hairy
hand appears over the edge of the cliff, followed
by a huge gorilla head that roars at the soldiers.
We then cut to Washington, where we see a
taxi parking in front of the White House.
Two men come out of it: Bill Randa, head of the
U.S. government organization Monarch, and Doctor
Houston Brooks, a geologist. They're there to see
Senator Willis, and Brooks isn't sure it is a good
idea considering the timing, but Randa reminds him
they're broke and this is their last chance. The
Senator receives them in their office even if he's
rather skeptical about it, and the men quickly
begin their explanation: they've discovered an
uncharted island on the South Pacific of which
legends speak about: Skull Island, the place where
God did not finish creation, notorious for all the
ships and planes that have gone missing there.
Randa thinks that the 1954 nuclear tests weren't
tests, they were trying to destroy something there
and that there's an imaginable ecosystem to be
found. The Senator still thinks it's a fairytale
so he leaves his office, but Randa and Brooks
don't give up and following him with more reasons
to do this: there's a mission going nearby soon,
so they could piggyback on it, and there are many
things they possibly find on the island - Brooks
isn't sure what that could be, but whatever it
is, they can't let the Russians find it first.
That manages to convince the Senator, who tells
them this will be the last favor he does for them.
Randa adds they'll need a military escort.
We're shown an American airbase in Vietnam next,
where all soldiers are getting ready
to go home now the war is over.
Here we meet officers Glenn Mills, Earl Cole,
Reg Slivko, Reles, and their Lieutenant Colonel,
Preston Packard. After some drinking, Packard
goes back to his office, where he's checked on
by Major Jack Chapman. It seems Chapman already
has a job in his future, but Packard feels all
his achievements had been for nothing. Later, when
night falls, Packard receives a call asking him to
join Randa's mission, he very gratefully accepts.
Meanwhile, in Saigon, Brooks and Randa are going
to a bar to hire a former special air service
captain as their tracker. Inside the bar,
they find this man, James Conrad, playing pool
and winning money for it. His opponents get
angry for losing and try to hurt him, but he
quickly knocks them out using the cue stick.
A moment later, the three of them are sharing a
table and trying to reach a deal. Conrad thinks
this expedition is extremely dangerous, so he asks
for five times the money they're offering plus a
bonus if they make it back. They accept. Conrad
also wants to know exactly what they're tracking,
but Brooks and Randa only tell him they want
his expertise in exploring dangerous territory.
Next we cut to Mason Weaver, a
photojournalist, doing work in her dark room.
She receives a call informing she's been accepted
into Randa's expedition, which makes her very
excited. When asked why she's so interested in
this, she explains that different sources have
all told her all the same thing, which means
they're lying. Something must be going on.
A couple of days later in Bangkok, all
characters are coming together to board the boat.
The soldiers aren't very happy with this new
mission, since they had been eager to return home
when the war ended. Weaver introduces herself to
Steve Woodward, a NASA employee, then to Packard,
who isn't a fan of her anti-war journalism. The
ship finally sets sail when everyone is on board,
and all the explorers get together to
listen to a talk by another NASA official,
Victor Nieves. He explains the island is
surrounded by a perpetual storm system,
which is what allows it to stay hidden from the
outside world. But they should be able to make
it through with Packard's military helicopters.
He also introduces Brooks and Randa, plus a third
scientist in their team, San Lin. Brooks takes
over the explanation then, saying they'll use
explosives to create vibrations that will help
them map the island. Then it's Chapman's turn,
he explains that the storm's interference will
block all radio contact, they'll be by themselves,
and that three days later will meet them
at the north end of the island - that's the
only safe departure window for an unknown
period of time, so nobody should miss it.
Once everyone is dismissed, Conrad and Weaver
scout the boat and come across each other.
They're both suspicious of the reasons they were
given for this expedition, and they poke at each
other's reasoning for being there as well.
It doesn't take them long to arrive at the
island's location, and the storm looks way
nastier in person. Randa wants to cross it,
Nieves doesn't. They leave the decision up to
Packard, who decides they are going in. All
soldiers plus the civilian teams board a fleet of
helicopters and they take off, flying off smoothly
at first. As soon as they enter the storm though,
things get complicated: constant lighting must
be dodged and the helicopters are continuously
shaken. But Packard is experienced and manages
to keep his cool, guiding his fleet with a speech
about Icarus until they safely make it through.
The island is absolutely gorgeous, but there
isn't much time to enjoy it since the plan is
getting starting: after leaving all civilians
-except for Weaver, Randa and Conrad- on land,
the helicopters spread to find the
assigned spot to drop the bombs at.
As the radars quickly pick up the vibrations from
the explosions, Brooks' theory is confirmed: the
bedrock is practically hollow. All is going well
until suddenly, one of the helicopters is struck
and knocked down by a flying tree, and another
is hit grabbed by a giant hand. The helicopter
is turned around and the soldier gets to see the
big face of an ape before being swallowed by it.
All alarms start to go off when everyone raises
their eyes to see the mighty figure standing
against the horizon: Kong, the giant gorilla. At
first he only stays on his spot, roaring at them,
but as soon as the soldiers start shooting at
him, he doesn't hesitate to defend himself.
The bullets don't truly hurt him, so it's easy
for Kong to move among the helicopters to knock
them down, and he even smashes some soldiers
that make it safely to the ground. One by one,
Kong destroys every chopper, and he doesn't leave
until there isn't a single one left in the air.
Because of the attack, all members
of the expedition got scattered.
On one spot, we have Weaver, Nieves,
Slivko, Brooks, San Lin and Conrad,
who will guide them up north to be as close as
possible to the meeting point. On another spot,
Chapman is alone, but he manages to send
Packard his position before communication dies.
Packard is on yet another spot together with
Reles, and when they start moving, they quickly
find Cole, Mills, Woodward and a couple more
soldiers. Turns out Randa is also nearby,
so Packard goes to speak to him in private.
He points his gun at him and asks for the real
reason behind this expedition, so Randa explains:
monsters exist, and nobody ever believed him.
The bombs weren't dropped for geology, they were
dropped to shake something out. Many years ago,
Randa was in a ship that got attacked by a
monster. He survived, but the government told
his family the ship had sunk in battle, and the
public never heard about it. Randa's never stopped
believing and now he wants to destroy these beasts
before they destroy humanity. He asks Packard to
take them home with proof so they can send the
cavalry - Packard replies he is the cavalry.
Back to Conrad's group, Slivko tries to contact
the others to no avail. When they walk by a lake,
they encounter a huge bison-like animal that
Slivko points his gun at, but Conrad makes him
put it down, since the animal isn't attacking
them. After staring at them for a moment,
the creature turns around and leaves.
Meanwhile, Packard and his soldiers are
searching for Chapman and the special weapons.
As they make their way through the jungle,
one of their soldiers is suddenly killed by a
large stick in his throat - when they look up,
they realize that stick is the leg of a giant
spider. The team immediately starts firing at it,
which doesn't stop the spider from
catching Mills. With a friend in the way,
they can't shoot anymore, so they start working
on cutting the legs as Mills takes out a knife
and starts cutting the limbs that are grabbing
him. It takes him some effort but he succeeds,
and as soon as he is dropped on the ground, the
team opens fire again, defeating the spider.
In the meantime, Conrad's team finds some
abandoned ruins. As soon as they take a
couple of steps inside, they're surrounded
by natives pointing their weapons at them.
They point their guns back, but any potential
fight is prevented just in time by a man
appearing among the natives: it's Hank, the
pilot that landed here during World War II.
When he says everything is fine, the natives back
off, and Hank guides the team into the ruins.
Back to Chapman, he's refilling his canteen when
he sees Kong arrive. Chapman hides behind a rock
and watches the ape drink water and, rather
suddenly, reach into the river and grab a
giant octopus. The creature tries to squeeze
Kong with its tentacles, but Kong proceeds
to tear off his limbs and eat them. He leaves
dragging the rest of the octopus behind him.
In the village, Hank explains to the team that
they'll be safe as long as they stay with the
natives. There's a huge wall surrounding them,
but it isn't there for Kong, it's for the other
monsters. Hank takes them to an old shipwreck
and inside it, he shows them some old paintings
on the rocks. They depict the beliefs of the
natives: for thousands of years, they lived
in fear of the monsters, until suddenly, some of
those creatures started protecting them instead.
Kong is considered the king around here and god to
these people, and he won't attack unless provoked.
It wasn't Kong that killed Gunpei, it was another
monster: the skullcrawlers, big lizards that live
underground and have been awoken by the bombs.
Kong usually can handle them just fine, but
the biggest one is dangerous: it is the one that
killed Kong's family. Conrad changes the subject
and tells Hank about the team that will be coming
to rescue them in three days, but Hank says it'd
be impossible to reach the north end of the island
in such a short time... at least, not on foot.
Meanwhile, Packard's team is walking through a
swamp when they see a group of strange birds.
They don't attack them, but Packard shoots one
anyway, scaring all the others away. The soldiers
are getting nervous, unsure if they'll make it
in time, but Cole asks them to trust Packard.
Back to Conrad and company, they're being told
by Hank that he and Gunpei had started to build
a boat before Gunpei died. Now the team will
help him finish it so they can reach the rescue
team in time. While everyone works on the
repairs, Weaver interacts with the natives,
taking pictures of them. It's then that she hears
a noise coming from the other side of the wall so
she goes investigate: it's one of those bison-like
creatures that has been caught under a plane.
She tries to help it but lacks the strength
to move an entire plane by herself,
thankfully Kong arrives and picks it up himself.
He stares at her for a short moment before
leaving, seemingly approving her actions.
During their walk in search of Chapman,
Packard's team finds the bloodstain
Kong left on a mountain. Now they
know the creature can be hurt and even killed.
While Conrad's team continues to work on the boat,
Chapman still tries to communicate
through the radio, but it won't work.
He sits on a big trunk to rest, but the trunk
moves and reveals it's not a fallen tree:
it's a creature that looks like one. Chapman
shoots it, which scares it off but also calls the
attention of another monster. He barely has time
to turn around before a skullcrawler eats him.
Night falls. In the village, while others
chitchat, Conrad and Weaver look at the
northern lights. She's trying to a picture but her
flashlight broke, so Conrad lends her his lighter,
a gift from his father who had fought
in World War II. He was his hero.
In the jungle, Packard's team is setting
camp, and Rande tells him this plan is folly.
Packard replies that if he doesn't
like how he runs things, he can leave.
The next morning, the boat is ready to go.
Hank retrieves the sword from Gunpei's grave
to take it with him, since Gunpei had become
his brother during the time they spent together.
Everybody boards the boat and, after some extra
effort to make it start, they finally set sail.
While Hank tells them about the family he left
behind, they received a call from Packard's
team. They are asked to shoot a signal so they
can find their location, and Packard does so.
Turns out they're close enough to pick them up,
but the celebration is soured when one of those
weird birds flies by and takes Nieves to eat with
its flock. They can't do much but keep moving.
A couple of hours later, they land the boat and
get off to reunite with Packard and his team.
Now everyone is back together, Conrad wants
them to get back on the ship and leave fast,
but Packard refuses: he still wants to
find Chapman. Hank protests against the
idea since going west means going where the
skullcrawlers live. But since his job is to
track, Conrad ends up giving in under the
condition they make it back by nightfall.
The group departs in search of Chapman and on the
way, they find the skeletons of Kong's parents.
Despite Hank's complaints, Packard orders them to
cross the mass grave, which is covered in a weird
mist - a mist they discover is flammable when
Cole drops his cigarette and causes an explosion.
They don't make it very far before a skullcrawler
reaches them, and they quickly hide behind those
giant bones. The skullcrawler pauses to puke out a
skull that lands near Conrad and makes it possible
for him to notice it has Chapman's name tag, then
it seemingly turns around and leaves. The team
thinks it's safe to come out, but when Randa's
camera flash goes off, the skullcrawler jumps on
it and eats him. Everyone opens fire, but it's
hard to aim when the lizard hides in the mist.
It suddenly shows up in front of Hank, who manages
to cut it with the sword before it pushes him
out of the way and eats one of the soldiers. It
goes after Weaver next, and that's when another
soldier turns on his flamethrower against it. The
skullcrawler hits that soldier with its tail and
sends it flying, causing another explosion where
it lands. Slivko is hit and knocked out by that
explosion, landing near the cans of gas. The weird
birds from before suddenly show up and while the
soldiers shoot them, Conrad takes Hank's sword and
a gas mask that was on the floor and puts it on to
enter the leaking gas area. He cuts every bird
on the way until he makes it to Slivko, but the
skullcrawler has made it to them as well - luckily
Weaver arrives just in time to throw Conrad's
lighter at the monster, making it blow up.
Once they leave the mass grave behind,
Hank reminds Packard what a horrible idea this is,
and Conrad informs everyone that Chapman is dead,
which he proves by showing the name tag the
creature had puked out. But Packard doesn't care,
he still wants to reach the crash site to
retrieve the explosives in order to kill Kong.
Hank, Conrad, the scientists and Weaver try to
stop him, explaining Kong is good and had only
been defending himself, Packard continues
not to listen. Everyone draws their weapons
and it seems a fight is about to begin, but
Conrad mediates: he tells Packard the location
he and his soldier need, but he will take the
civilians back to the boat - except Woodward,
who goes with the soldiers. They find Chapman's
things on the way and retrieve them so they can
send them back to his family. Meanwhile, Conrad
tells his team to wait a moment because he needs
to find high ground, Weaver goes with him.
It's nighttime by the time Packard's party
finds the weapons and begins working on a trap
for Kong that includes flames. We cut back to
Conrad and Weaver then, who make it to the edge
of a cliff and manage to take a good look at
the river and where the boat could possibly be.
It's at that moment that Kong visits them, but he
doesn't attack because he recognizes Weaver, who
now feels brave enough to touch his nose. Kong
doesn't seem to mind, but he roars and leaves when
he hears the explosions set off by the soldiers.
Conrad and Weaver return to their team and
send them back to the boat, the scientists do
as asked but Hank joins them when he learns they
want to save Kong. Meanwhile, Kong has reached the
soldiers and is ready to fight. He runs to them on
the water, but Packard throws a torch and starts
a ring of fire around the ape. At first it seems
Kong is in so much pain that he's unable to move,
but eventually he makes it through the flames and
smashes Woodward with his hand before falling to
the ground. Packard asks his soldiers to place
their charges but we can see in their eyes
they're hesitating after seeing Kong suffer. As
they all grab the detonators, Conrad, Weaver and
Hank arrive to stop them. Soldiers and civilians
point their weapons at each other while Packard
rants about a soldier's dirty work - the group
seems to be at an impasse, at least until Slivko
comes through and points at Packard instead.
Conrad declares it's over, but he's interrupted
by a noise in the water: it's the biggest
skullcrawler. Everybody runs away except Packard,
who stays behind to turn on the detonator with
the intention of killing Kong but ends up being
crushed by him when he wakes up. Kong engages
the lizard in battle but is soon overpowered.
The sun rises as the group makes it to the edge of
the island. They send Weaver to fire a flare that
Brooks could see while they work on a distraction
to buy them some time. Conrad and the soldiers
start running as the skullcrawler begins its
chase, Cole decides to stay behind and sacrifice
himself with the intention of blowing up his
explosives when the lizard comes close enough, but
he's pushed away by its tail. The skullcrawler is
about to get the rest of the team when Kong makes
a reappearance, punching and smashing the lizard
as many times as possible while Weaver reaches
a high place and fires that flare. After a couple
more hits include one with a tree, Kong is pushed
back by the skullcrawler and accidentally falls
on some chains that bound him. The lizard is about
to kill him when the scientists arrive with the
boat, shooting their weapons at the skullcrawler
while the soldiers climb aboard. Between them and
a flare Weaver shoots at its neck, they manage to
distract the monster long enough for Kong to free
himself from the chains and use one to attack his
opponent, hitting the skullcrawler with it before
grabbing it and smashing it against the mountain,
which causes Weaver to fall in the water.
Kong sees her and hurries to knock out the
lizard with a few hits before reaching into the
water to rescue Waver. He takes her out just as
the skullcrawler makes a comeback, jumping on
Kong and grabbing his wrist with his tongue.
Kong takes the chance to grab the tongue and
kill the skullcrawler by ripping its guts out.
When he opens his hand, Weaver is fine, so he
gently puts her down on the ground where Conrad
comes to check on her. Together they watch
Kong give them one last look before leaving.
Moments later, everyone is on the boat,
sailing to the meeting point. They're
worried the place will change when word comes
out, but they promise they won't say anything.
As a fleet of helicopters arrives to rescue them,
we see Kong one last time, roaring for the camera.
Two final bonus scenes come afterward: one
is of Hank, reuniting with his wife and
son. The other one is Conrad and Weaver, who
think they've been captured by the military,
but it's just Brooks and San Lin, who
explain they've found footage of a cave
that shows other monsters kings like Kong: the
drawings represent Godzilla, Mothra, Rodan,
and King Ghidorah. The final image
shows Godzilla and Ghidorah in battle..